This is not a functional programming
[LAUGH] Course I promise.
But we have started entering the deep
dark forest of functional programming.
So, yeah, as Samuel L Jackson would say
in Jurassic Park, hold on your butt's.
And this sort of brings us to the wider
topic of programming paradigms in
JavaScript, which I think bears mentioning
as we are professional JavaScripters,
because there's a lot of chaos going
on here with different paradigms.
Being mixed.
So what am I talking about?
Programming paradigms.
Well, some examples, there's
a bajillion programming paradigms, but
the most, some of the most common ones,
and I think in the web development world,
the ones that we're most likely to
encounter are functional programming,
or FP, and
object-oriented programming, or Or
if you were prefer, ooh,
know what we'll call it.
Anyways, and they're,
they're kind of instances if we will,
mixing metaphors of what
we could think of as like.
Also as paradigms are often referred
to as programming paradigms,
but I kind of think of
as like meta paradigms.
Paradigms that encompass
a whole way of imagining,
ways of conceiving of programming.
So these paradigms, or meta-paradigms,
essentially have a very different approach
and a different focus on, like what we
care about when we're writing a program.
And in general, so functional
programming Programming is sort of
a implementation, if you will, of
the declarative programming meta paradigm,
which in general is focused
on what you want to get.
What the result is that you would
like to have from the computer.
Computer, please give me this.
As a As opposed to imperative programming,
which is
what OOP is sort of a subset of, usually.
There's a lot more to say about that,
but not in this course.
[LAUGH] The how is more the answer.
So like an imperative command in English,
like do this, do that.
Set, log this to the console,
set that time out,
these kind of commands of first do A,
then do B, then do a thing, and at some
time later,do C, so on and so forth.
This kind of very much order of
how to do things, step by step.
Step is more the focus in that paradigm.
And it's interesting because we see kind
of, in JavaScript, we see both happen.
Yeah.
Well, we can have, for example, we're
pretty used to talking about objects.
In JavaScript.
And we're gonna keep talking about
objects a lot more in JavaScript.
And we're pretty used to writing these
like, do this thing, and then do this
other thing, and then do this third thing,
kind of one at a time, like this, right?
So we could define a variable, config, and
that's essentially saying to JavaScript,
hey.
remember this value when I use
the name config in the future and
maybe it's an object that has some data
what have you then I can maybe I have some
program class or
what have you I can define it in a new
instance with the new keyword passing
in The config that I just referenced.
And now that program is gonna
probably remember that config for
the whole rest of its existence.
So we're mixing already
a little closure in.
But then maybe there's like
a run method on that program.
And I, in the run method, it's,
we're setting it to a, just a very.
Exciting program that just tells you
what paradigm it's programming in.
[LAUGH] And so if we call program.run,
we will get that out.
Now we can accomplish the exact
same thing in a functional way, but
it looks quite different.
So in functional programming
Everything is functions.
And we want to try to avoid
this imperative do this,
and then do that, and then do this
other thing, for a few reasons.
But one of the reasons is how we can just
swap out not with const, but with let.
Let's say we can just swap out
the values of things, and I don't know,
there's all these asynchronous things that
may or may not be running and whatever.
And so in functional programming,
we would tend to not sort of
imperatively list out all the things
we want JavaScript to do.
Remember this value, remember that value,
remember this value.
Instead, we're going to try
to start from the what.
Do we want?
Well, we want a string, which we're
using our little string template friend,
that says,
we're doing stuff in some paradigm.
And that is gonna be, we want that to be
the result of calling this run function
with Some arguments, and
we want that function,
that thing that can run to be
the output of a program
creator that takes in, in this case,
some configuration that has a.
Paradigm in it.
And that's gonna kinda percolate
through these functions and
end up in what we see from the string.
And so what we've got here is we
are instead of saying, hey, JavaScript,
remember this function as this name and
remember this function as that name,
we're naming these functions,
which we don't have.
To in this syntax, but
just for visibility.
And so we're declaring a function saying
this is what this function should do.
It should turn a input
argument of this object with the paradigm
property into a function called run.
And that function called run
should turn some argument Into
this a string that tells
us what's happening and
probably does a bunch of
other stuff in the program.
And that function, that program, or that
program function that we declare we want
to kick it off immediately
with declarative paradigm.
And so you'll notice we have.
A bunch of parens going in here.
We've got parens around this
function expression, and
then parens like we're calling it
with some value which is gonna
be passed to paradigm which I'm
destructuring here in the arguments.
And then a call of the value
returned by that Because
this is gonna evaluate to a function run.
And then we can call that
function to get our stringout.
So this is gonna print out.
Well, it's gonna say declaratively
instead of imperatively.
But essentially, it's gonna do the same
thing as our object-oriented program.
Question, just a quick poll,
a matter of taste.
How many folks prefer this syntax.
Seeing some shaking hands.
How many folks prefer this?
Okay, I'm seeing more hands.
All right, in general, This seems to be
a little bit more common, I would say.
But we can also a mix and
match with we don't have to be being so
deliberate about being super functional
programmers that can't use a variable ever
we could, let's say declare these as
functions and then call it just once and
we would be functional ish programming